Exception:
 Exception is a problem that occurs during the execution of a program(RunTime) due to abnormal situation .
when exception occurs, the exception of the program will stop abruptly(Unexpected stop).

Note :
1)For Every Exception , there is a statement which is responsible.
2)That statement throws exception only during the abnormal situation.

In Throwable hierarchy which classes are considered as Unchecked Exception?
  Ans: Error class and its Sub classes, runtime exception class and its Sub classes are all considered as unchecked exception.

What about Throwable and Exception Class?
Ans: Throwable and exception class are partially checked  and Partially unchecked.

Throwable:
Throwable class is defined in java. lang package;

Checked Exception:
The compiler aware exception is known as checked Exception. The compiler knows the statement responsible for the exception.
Therefore, it forces the programmer to either handle or declare the exception , if not done we get unreported exception compile time error.


Unchecked Exception:
The compiler unaware exception is known as unchecked Exception. The compiler doesn't knows the statement responsible for the exception.
Hence, it does not  force the program  either to handle or declare the exception.



Exception Handling :
Exception handling is a mechanism used in java, to continue the normal flow of execution when exception is occurred in the runtime.

How To Handle The Exception ?
In java, we can handle the exception with the help of try-catch block.

syntax :

     try
   {
     statements ;
   }
    catch( declare one variable of Throwable type )
   {
    statements ;
   }

try :
1.the statements which are responsible for the exception should be written inside
try block.

2.When the exception occurs,

1. execution of try block is stopped.
2. Throwable type object is created.
3. the address of throwable type object created, it is passed to catch
block.

catch:

catch block is used to catch the Throwable type reference thrown by the try block.

1.if it catches, we say exception is handled. Statements inside catch block get executed and normal flow of the program will continue.

2.if it does not catch, we say exception is not handled, catch block is not executed and program is terminated.

When does catch block catch the exception ?
Ans: 
If the variable declared in catch is either same type or super class type of the exception object thrown try block, we say it is caught.

finally block:

The finally keyword is used to execute code(used with exception try and catch statements)no matter if there is an exception or not.

Exception Object Propagation:

The Movement of exception Object from called method to the calling method when the exception is not handled is known as Exception object Propagation.

throw keyword:
The throw keyword in Java is used to explicitly throw an exception from a method or any block of code.

throws keyword:
It is a Keyword ,which is used to declare an exception to be thrown to the caller.
It should be used in in Method declaration statement. 

syntax:
[Modifier] returntype methodname([formal]) throws exception
{

}

Note:
If a method declares an exception using throws , then the caller of the method must handle or declare the exception . If not we get compile time error.
